To understand a balance sheet
well we have to know the first thing
that on the right side we have
the origins of financing, that
is, it informs us of where the
funds come from.
On the left side we have the other
perspective that is where we have
invested those funds, which
are the assets.
We go with the right side, with
the sources of funding.
Here we have three large masses.
Current liabilities
are debts that have a
maturity of less than
one year.
We have non-current liabilities,
which are debts with a maturity
greater than the year, and
we also have our own funds.
Permanent resources
are called the own funds
and non-current liabilities.
On the asset side, what is it that
we have?
We have assets that are more
liquid, called current assets.
The criterion here is that they
are assets that will be converted
in principle into treasury in
less than a year.
They are usually the most
operational assets, related to
the company’s own activity.
And then you have the assets that
are not liquid, which are called
non-current, but good that they are
the immovilized, the fixed assets, etc.
As you can see, we have classified all
of the assets and their requirements.
Basically, we have two
large blocks.
Permanent assets and non-current
assets, say they have a longer
term, and current assets
and non-current liabilities,
which are more liquid
or are debts that have a higher
demand, that is, that will
expire in the next year.
When we talk about the structure
of capital, we are talking about
the proportion of foreign funds
and own funds, that is, how we have
funded ourselves.
This can be seen in the balance sheet.
As we have seen before, on the right
side we have the origins or
sources of funding.
And here what is we have to understand?
Well, we have to understand that
the liabilities or foreign
funds have a risk, because you
have to return them, and if you
can’t return it you’ll go bankrupt.
They have a risk and have a
cost, because you have to pay interest.
In the case of own funds, it is not
so, because they do not pose any
risk to the company.
The risk is assumed by the partners,
who invest their money and take
the risk of not recovering it
or not getting the profitability
they expect, etc.
In addition, own funds do not have
direct cost to the company,
because you do not have the contractual
obligation to remunerate
the partners.
If so, dividends are paid,
but they are not like interest.
Well, the ratio between one and
the other is what is called the
leverage ratio or the indebtedness
ratio, which is something you
have to be very familiar
with, because it has a
huge impact on the company’
s risk, valuation, profitability,
etc.
We will see it later.
We should understand what kind of
financing we should resort to depending
on the assets of a company.
That is, it is that of course, it
has nothing to do with having
a company in which assets, for example,
are very liquid.
Imagine there are stocks in which
you have a company in which, almost
if your assets are, for example,
immovated, non-current assets.
Well, it is very easy to understand this.
If we have assets, how do we finance
assets that are not current,
that are not liquid, that
will not be converted
into treasury.
Well, then in principle, I say in
principle because here we have
to make matches, but we will now
just stay with the idea.
You have to finance them
either with permanent resources
or with own funds or with
long-term debts.
Why is?
Because those assets will not be converted
into treasury that will allow
you to repay those debts.
Stay with this concept.
With current assets,
we could do a similar
analysis.
If current assets are liquid and
will be converted into treasury,
we could finance them
with short-term liabilities,
right?
They will be able to make
money to repay those debts.
But in this analysis, there
are other factors that need
to be included, right?
What are the operational
funding needs we will see.
We need to look at the
funding needs of
a company.
So how much do we have to finance?
Well, let’s start with the
asset, because what you have to
finance is the asset.
We have a non-current asset,
which is fixed, immovilized assets.
We also need to add current
assets.
And in this case we will think only of
the operative ones, which are
necessary for the activity.
Let us put, for example,
stocks and customers.
Well, that’s all we
should finance, right?
Well, here you have to consider
a very important concept, which
is spontaneous financing, which
are the providers.
Because suppliers help us to
finance part of our activity.
You think, imagine you have a trade
where you don’t have fixed
assets.
You only have to fund the
stocks, the purchases.
You do not have any other assets.
You sell at the expense,
but pay your suppliers
90 days.
Well, it’s that your suppliers,
in this case, are helping you
to finance your entire activity.
You do not have to put money
in advance.
You sell at the counter and pay the
supplier 90 days.
Well, from this, what we calculate
are operational fund needs
or working capital, which
are absolutely basic
concepts in finance.
How is it calculated?
Well, because we have current
assets less current operating
liabilities, less suppliers,
basically.
The NOF is the amount
we really have to finance, because
the rest helps us to
finance suppliers.
So, let’s think about what is
the total amount that a company
has to finance?
The total financial needs
we have here in red.
Well, because it is the non-current
assets plus the operational
needs of funds.
So the later you pay your suppliers,
the higher the balance of suppliers,
the better because our overall
financial needs will
be better, they will
be lower.
Let’s go to a case where NOFs are
negative.
That is, suppliers help us
to finance all our operational
activity, not only that, but
above all help us to finance
part of our non-current
assets, as we can see
on the screen.
Well, because that’s what it
does, as we’ve seen, decrease
the total financial needs, which
is much better because we have
to put the partners less money,
you have to resort to a lower
amount of liabilities,
debt, etc.
Why is?
Because it’s the providers
who are helping you
finance.
Regarding the state of results
or results, what you need
to know, yes or yes, is what
are the main magnitudes
and what they inform us.
We start with the gross margin,
which we do is deduct
only the cost of sales.
And here this is always thought
of any business, it is not
a high-margin or low-margin
business.
Then we are going to rest the personnel
expenses, other operating
expenses, etc., and we come to
levy, which is the depreciation
and amortisation tax, which is
a very well-known size.
If we take away the amortization
and depreciation we get to levitt.
Well, what I want to happen here
is that Levittda and Levitt are
usually considered the most representative
magnitudes of operating profit,
of economic profit.
What do we mean by economic operations?
Well, we are not taking into account
how we have been financed, we are
only taking into account the operational
activity of the company itself
and this helps us in many
cases to compare different
companies.
Why is?
Because how you have funded
you responds to other kinds of decisions
and when we consider the operational
economic benefit good because
what we are analyzing
is only the activity itself of
the company.
Then we go down and we take away
interest on debts and we have
the gross profit and then we take
away the taxes, which also taxes
because you have in mind that
they depend on each country, taxation,
etc., and we get to the result
of the exercise.
Depending on the information we
want to obtain, if we want
to compare companies in different
countries, etc., we will
use one size or another.
It is important that you understand
well how a company’s profitability
is calculated and is
mainly done using two sizes
that are the ROA and the ROA.
ROA is economic profitability
and we call it economic because
it is the profitability on the asset.
As you said economic refers to that
we only measure the activity of the
company if we do not have in mind how
it is funded and the ROA is equal to
the net profit part by the total asset
and subsequently we have
the financial profitability,
the profitability over the own
funds, the profitability over
the equity that is the ROE, which
is the magnitude that matters to
the partners and how it is calculated
because very easy also the net
profit in this case we divide it
between the equity and what is
interesting here is that you
know what the relationship
between the two is.
Well, ROE depends mainly
on two things.
It depends on the profitability we
get on the asset, that is, on the
economic activity itself, on whether
we are better or worse, whether
we are more profitable or less
in the use of our assets, and
also on how we have been financed.
It depends on leverage.
Basically, as long as the profitability
on the asset is higher than
the cost of debt, the more you
have leveraged, the more
you have borrowed, the greater
your profitability, the
profitability of your own
funds, because you have
put less money.
We always understand this well
when we put the example with a housing.
You buy a house and you mortgage
at the maximum, imagine a lot
of money and the price of the house
results in a year, two years,
whatever, and you have obtained
a plus value of 100,000 euros,
for example, and you still put
very little money.
The profitability of that money
you put on your own funds
is very high.
Why is?
Because of the leverage, thanks
to the financing that has allowed
you to make an investment
in an asset with a value,
but putting very little money.
Therefore, ROE depends on the profitability
on assets and how we have
funded ourselves.
It is interesting to understand what
the rotation of assets consists
of and how it affects profitability.
If we see the definition,
the rotation of an asset is the
number of times in a period that
that asset becomes sales.
We could do so with the entire
asset or we could do so, for
example, with specific items
such as stocks, which are the
assets that are constantly rotating.
What is what happens?
The higher the turnover, the
same amount of assets generates
more sales or, seen from another
perspective, for the same volume
of sales you would
need to finance less
asset volume.
What I want you to understand is that
the higher the rotation, the higher
the profitability because
we need less assets, as we
were seeing.
This affects the ROE on the
profitability of the asset.
In this formula, we see it.
If the profitability on the asset is
equal to the net profit taken by the
asset, if the rotation is greater
and we need fewer assets, because the
profitability is greater, right?
And here, look, we have it more disaggregated.
The ROE is equal to the margin
you get for every euro you sell.
How much is net profit?
The more margin the more
profitability, obvious.
And, in addition, it depends on the rotation
because the higher the rotation
you will need a smaller amount
of assets.
Cash flow is the amount
of cash flow that has
been generated in a business,
in a company, in an investment
over a period of time.
There is a difference
between net profit and
cash flow.
Net profit is calculated
income minus expenses, but what
you have to keep in mind is that
income and expenses are
purely accountable sizes, not
objective sizes.
What do I mean by this?
It depends on the rules
of each country, how you apply
them, etc.
You can periodize income,
periodize expenses, amortise
more, less, etc.
Instead, cash flow is totally
objective, it is the treasury
it has been able to generate.
We also need to know what the most
popular cash flows are and how they
are calculated.
In the world of finance, there
are basically two sizes of cash flow,
mainly, which is the free cash
flow, which is the free cash flow,
and the cash flow of the shareholders.
Let’s see how it is calculated.
We start from the magnitude
of profit related, which I will not
explain here in detail, but basically
we start from the profit
and what we do is adjustments.
The first thing we do is adjust
it with lots that have been taken
into account to calculate the
profit, but that really don’t
affect the box.
The most obvious example is
the amortisation.
You when you amortise is a cost
on the result account, but
really the amortisation is
not a cash out.
We must start with the
profit and add the amortisations.
We also have to pay for the
investments we have made over
a period of time, over
a year.
If you make investments,
those investments are not
included in the income account.
They are assets you have acquired
or have increased whatever.
Well, because those investments
do what you have less treasure.
You have devoted treasury to making investments.
They are usually divided between
investment in circulating capital,
working capital, operational
fund needs, i.e. more operational
needs, and investment
in fixed assets in capex.
We have the free cash flow
and the free cash flow.
The free cash flow is the
cash flow generated by the company
without considering how we have
funded ourselves.
That is, until now we have not
taken into account the entries
or exits of debt, we have not taken
into account interest, etc.
Well, if we want to calculate,
make the final cash flow that
remains for shareholders, what
we have to do is start with
the free cash flow, add the
debt entries if we have
received debt, restate the
debt amortisations and also
restate the interests we had
to pay for those debt.
The only thing that remains is the
cash flow of the shareholders.
You should understand very well what
it consists of and how capitalization
or discounting and updating
of cash flows is done.
We start with capitalization.
Capital is to carry a cash flow to the
future, that is, to calculate how much
it is worth in the future.
And how do we do it?
In this case, what we do is multiply
by a capitalization factor
that depends on the type of
interest we expect to generate
that investment.
The opposite is done with capitalization
or with discount.
What we do is calculate how much
cash flows are worth today that
are predictable in the future.
In this case, we do
not multiply, in this case
we do divide by a discount
factor.
We apply a discount rate.
What you have to understand is that
the discount rate depends on the
expected risk in that investment.
We also saw that we can disagree
this way, it depends on the interest
without risk, which is the cost of
opportunity, and it depends on the
risk premium you estimate or apply
to that investment, to that particular
company.
This is the basis
of cash flow.
In this case, when we discount cash
flows, what we have is a series
of future cash flows and we
will discount them and bring them
to the current moment by applying
a rate that, as we have seen,
depends on the required
profitability.
If we perceive that it has a lot
of risk, we demand a higher profitability,
we apply a higher rate, because
the current value of all those funds
will be lower.
It is important that you understand
well how a company is valued, what
are the main methods and more.
Well, basically we could say that there
are three approaches.
The first is to estimate the value
of a company from the value of
its assets.
Within this approach there
are different methods, we can
do it in different ways, but we
will not go into detail now.
The second would be to estimate the
value of a company based on
the market value of other transactions
that have been generated or
what companies listed in
the sector are worth, etc.
That is, we look at how much companies
are worth that are comparable
and we get some conclusions and
apply it to ours.
This is done with the multiple,
with the comparable multiple.
There are some that are well known, such
as EBITDA, for example, or as the
PERC, which is the Price Earning
Ratio.
For example, imagine that in similar
transactions of companies
like yours, in your sector,
etc., the transaction has been
valued at an EBITDA of 7.
Well, you will do what you will do
is apply that multiple to your
company and you will get the value
of your company.
It is very easy to do.
The last of the methods and the
most orthodox we have is cash
flows.
In this case, what we do is analyze
the company and project
the cash flows that we expect
that company will generate
in the coming years.
And then we discount those cash
flows, bring them to the current
moment, applying it to a
discount rate.
This discount rate depends on the risk.
It is not the same thing that
we are valuing, imagine, a startup
with a very high degree of
innovation and very high risk that
we are valuing an investment
because that is very stable in
which we know almost to science
what will happen and more.
So we project cash flows
with expectations, etc.
We discount them using a discount
rate that is representative
of the risk.